greetings one at all and thanks for
listening to the China history podcast
I'm Laszlo Montgomery here again
bringing you another episode from our
chronological dynastic overview series
we're getting closer and closer to the
last dynasty today we're looking at the
second half of the Song Dynasty known as
the southern song now the Imperial
government is based south of the Yangtze
in what is present-day Hangzhou the
Jurchens or Manchus had invaded some
lands and took the capital in Chi Fung
and as you recall they captured almost
the entirety of the song imperial court
and marched them back to their capital
to suffer a lifetime of indignities and
whatnot they controlled everything north
of the Yanks leaving everything south of
the Chung Chung as it was known in the
local language in the hands of the
southern song rulers but as I said last
time some got away and it's their story
that we examine in this episode okay so
let's get our bearings here the southern
song began at 11:27 and runs 152 years
until they and everyone else the
Jurchens of the Jin dynasty the Tongass
of the Western Shah and the southern
song everyone by 1279 is taking their
orders from the Mongol invaders Chi Fung
wants the largest city in the world has
been sacked and anyone with good sense
has already left town leaving the city
of Constantinople with the title of the
largest city in the world at this time
the Jurchen armies kept coming at the
song and didn't stop at the yang so when
they converged on Hangzhou the Emperor
fled by boat and became the first
emperor in Chinese history to sail on a
naval vessel and this actually is one of
the signature achievements of the
southern song each dynasty as we have
seen is their various defining moments
whether it's battles or imperial
struggles uprisings etc the southern
song has its share but it's during the
time of the southern song that a
permanent standing Navy came into being
in Qinghai and present-day Jo Shan near
my beloved Ning ball where my employers
are located as I said in the last
episode regarding intra China trade in
commerce the waterway systems between
the Yellow River the Grand Canal the
and all the other lesser rivers that
were part of the vast China intra aqua
network had advanced quite quickly some
rather big and menacing vessels were
already built so converting a lot of
these to a standing Navy wasn't a very
long stretch it's not like they had to
build it from scratch paddle wheel boats
were a centerpiece of this Navy some
with as many as 12 paddle wheels per
side with arrays of crude but very
destructive weapons on deck at their
disposal under the southern song a navy
comes into being and becomes integral to
fighting the wars with China's enemies
and Chinese attitudes about reaching out
and expanding contact with all these
worlds beyond China's coastline it
gathers more momentum the three great
historic ports of this age were found in
trench Oh shaman and Guangzhou and after
the Mongols take control of China even
more so do you see Chinese vessels
sailing the high seas in the Ming
Dynasty Chinese naval and maritime
vessels made up perhaps the largest and
most traveled fleets in the world and
keep in mind other than the Mongols
under Kublai Khan you really have to get
a fine-tooth comb to look for examples
where China use their naval power as an
invading or a conquering force well
the southern song doesn't have a very
auspicious start essentially they had to
make a bitter peace with the Jean
dynasty invaders these Jurchens or
Manchus as we more commonly know them in
1142 a treaty was signed that's although
humiliating to the southern song rulers
kept things on less than a slow boil all
the emperor gaozong had to do was pay an
annual tribute and there was zero wiggle
room in this treaty that saved face for
the Han Chinese they had to come right
out and say it China was referred to as
quote our insignificant state and when
referring to the Jin it had to refer to
them as quote your superior state and
they didn't stop there historically in
these kinds of treaties one would be
like the big brother or the father and
one would then be like the little
brother or the inferior in the relay
or something like that you know that
showed kinship and in the language but
these gin rulers they were tough and
they never let up and pressing their
inferiors the gaozong emperor had to
refer to himself as servant goal to the
Jurchens goal being his personal name I
know it doesn't sound like much but as
far as pouring scorn and all the decorum
and Dignitas of the song emperor it was
quite an insult and was indicative of
how powerless the Han Chinese of the
song were to these fierce northern
non-han people's the Jurchens threw a
cherry on top of this concession and
gave these southern song rulers back the
body of the deceased wheats own emperor
whose tragic fate we discussed last time
anyways the gene get theirs let me tell
you when they chase the song out of
northern China and took over the
historical heartland of China going all
the way back to the cradle of Chinese
civilization they had to take the Yellow
River as part of the deal in the eleven
70s and 11 80s the Yellow River was
causing the gene all kinds of grief and
at 1194 when the Yellow River did one of
its patented changing course things the
river turned the entire plane into one
big lake so we're gonna come back
another day and maybe spend an entire
episode discussing these Jurchens and
they're Jean dynasty all it takes is two
outrageous Emperor's and a Mongol
invasion in 1211 and they're gone within
ninety two years after this trade and
are only able to rise again when they
established the last and final dynasty
in China in 1644 the Manchu Qing Dynasty
now the southern song this ran from
eleven twenty seven to twelve seventy
nine nobody actually found it the
southern Song Dynasty the song is
considered a single 319 year dynasty
running from 960 to 1279 it simply
divided between a northern and southern
period depending on where the capital
was all the Emperor's were still of the
same Jolla family of child quan yin who
founded the dynasty so emperor gaozong
is not considered the founder of the
southern song but merely the tense song
emperor what can I say except that
despite all the stress caused by the
Jurchens it was
another great moment for China the
Chinese and for Chinese culture
besides fleeing the North because of the
Jurchens the South held other
attractions such as climate that ranged
from ball made to tolerable and if you
were a landscape painter the South was
nirvana all the best scenic spots
beloved by China's greatest landscape
painters were here so you had continued
migration of Han Chinese to the south to
seek their fortune or perhaps just
warmer climes by this time block
printing was such that books could be
hid for a reasonable price and they were
no longer the possession of only the
rich the lacquerware industry was now
just that an entire industry producing
not just for the domestic market but for
the ever-growing export market as well
during the southern song you had the
fabulous chain by ceramics that came out
of the kilns of jinda Chen a city and
young she blessed with the ultimate
deposits of kaolin and rich clay this
perfect mix of clay allowed for a a
shell like ceramic ware that came off a
blue and white hue and this great but
little-known city in china jing de jong
in the very north of jungjie province
bordering on way from Jing de Jong came
the blue and white China where exported
around the world to markets that
treasured it for his beauty and from
this blue and white where from Jing de
Jun that followed the song came the word
China where with a small sea of course
and you could say in some ways that this
distinctive blue and white China was in
many ways the world's first
international brand because everyone
associated it with China was only found
there the idea of government investing
in commerce was now alive and well in
southern song China everyone was
hustling during this era and it was a
time when all it took was a nice little
how true to the right official and you
got the monopoly for this for that a
whole way of doing business evolved
where Guang XI relationships were
everything every man had his price it
was during the Song Dynasty that the
tradition of foot binding began not to
get too deep into it but it began in the
early
and the practice spread quickly
particularly amongst the upper classes
when a girl reached 5 or 6 years old
their feet were already the perfect size
and from that day out a binding
technique was used that molded the feet
into these perfect little three and a
half inch lotuses that were so
attractive to so many in those days in
the age of the song all educated men
wooded knowledge in those days that from
the stands to South Vietnam Chinese
culture was indeed superior to all those
known in Asia in those lands spreading
out over such a great distance Chinese
characters Jones were used in their
writing systems Mandarin Chinese was the
lingua franca its system of government
the arts and well everything about it
was head and shoulders above everything
else and admired and copied and adapted
and for at least a hundred years or so
the song enjoyed a very nice high and
rarely had China seen better days this
was the time of Zhu XI second only to
Confucius in the pantheon of great
Chinese philosophers zhu she brought
neo-confucianism to china rather than
focusing on the Yi Jing he called for
the study of the SU Shu the four books
that's the dossier that jeongyeon Lulu
and the Munsell if we ever get to a
series of podcasts on Chinese philosophy
well we'll look at Zhu Shi and
neo-confucianism neo-confucianism
combined bits and pieces of Taoism and
Buddhism with classical Confucianism the
important thing to know is that Zhu Xi's
commentaries of these three classic
Confucian texts plus the monks
form the basis from which all the
questions of the civil service exams
were based thereafter he was also one of
the greatest of China's calligraphers
one of the innate problems of the song
was this strong Confucian tradition and
the all pervasive power of these
Confucian bureaucrats who pushed every
button and pulled every lever that ran
everything there was about the
government from the capital to the
smallest prefecture the enemy of the
Confucian astiz always the military and
the Confucian bureaucrats are credited
with keeping the song military weak and
ineffective so much disdain that the
Confucians have for the military that
they
weren't even included among the four
classes of society that went sure known
Gong Chun scholar farmer artisan and
merchant the old Confucian concept of
war battle war was you know just not
considered very good in 1271 Kublai Khan
established the yeren dynasty after
northern China was captured from the
annihilated Jin dynasty I told you they
get there's a succession crisis brought
about by the sudden death of his brother
put things on hold for a Kublai Khan
until he was able to sort things out and
then become the great cagin by 1276 it
was all over for the song I'll tell you
those who have studied world military
history will tell you there was never
anything like the Mongols before or
since they were a one of a kind for most
in fighting ability for waging fast and
furious sustained warfare and in their
sheer brutality and just overall
destructive power I think regardless of
the effectiveness of the song military
it's unlikely they could defend against
the power and savagery of the Mongol war
machine I'm gonna do an episode one day
on their history they've been around a
long time their history as a people
begins around the time of five Han
Dynasty and there's a debate who they
were but most sources I read say they
were probably branches of the shinbei
tribes rather than the shondo in any
case we'll focus on this at a later time
for now let's just say that the
beginning of the end for the song came
about with the Mongols Genghis Khan and
his gang after suffering insults and
humiliations from the Jurchens for years
invaded them in 1211 in 12 13 and 12 14
it was a bad year for anyone up in
northern China for those were the years
the Mongols were just destroying
everything in their path and began to
simply overwhelmed Jeanne dynasty in
1214 the Jin they cry uncle and offer
tributes in order to stop the
destruction and flicked it by genghis
khan and his Mongol armies by 1234 these
church and people who had been such a
terror to the Han Chinese were
themselves conquered by a more powerful
force unseen on this earth since the
beginning of history
seong Chinese forces couldn't for the
life of them hold back the Jurchens and
were easily subdued by them and as I
said the song suffered every kind of
indignity at the hands of the powerful
proto-man shoes or Jurchens and then
along comes Genghis Khan and before long
the Jurchens end up becoming a vassal
state of the mongols rather than face
destruction but Oh g'day Khan the third
son of Genghis Khan he ends up moving on
the chin anyway and he crushes them in
1234 and then seven years earlier they
had already made mincemeat of the
Western shot if you remember them those
were the 10 good people Genghis Khan in
fact died during the siege of their
capital in 1227 so the song ruler is
hearing about this had to have felt that
it was gonna be curtains for them sooner
or later
with all their enemies conquered by 1234
the Song Dynasty knew was only a matter
of time before they themselves were
targeted next by the Mongols
there's only 45 more years at this point
for the southern song and it wasn't an
easy four and a half decades with this
sword of Damocles hanging over their
heads all the time now it's important to
note when the Mongols were putting the
finishing touches on the Jean dynasty
the song had allied themselves with the
Mongols and with the Jurchens on the run
they joined in on the fun of finishing
off the Jing so the Mongols and the song
had this sort of treaty but what's the
gene were out of the picture the song
forces thought that it was okay to
retake all their old captured northern
capitals like boy Yong Chun unn and Kai
Fung now the Mongols didn't like this
and felt it betrayed the treaty they had
and so this led to war and as I said the
grandson of Genghis Khan
monka khan he dies in this battle
against the song in Chongqing and 1259
it's only when mngke khan dies that you
have this succession struggle for the
top spot in the mongol empire if not for
this the battle would have continued and
perhaps the song would have met a sooner
extinction mngke khan by the way is
credited with the defeat of the lands
today known as he rocks area and as well
as the Southeast Asian lands of nan Chao
Vietnam Thailand and Cambodia but as I
said there was this power struggle going
on with the Mongol
that bought some time for the song but
monkey Collins younger brother Kublai he
emerged on top in 1264 and then Kublai
was as you might recall from an earlier
podcast the favorite grandson of Genghis
Khan and this Civil War sort of breaks
up the Mongol Empire with Kublai really
only controlling essentially China and
Mongolia seven years later in 1271 the
yeren dynasty is founded by Kublai Khan
so Kublai Khan has to get rid of the
southern song before he can claim title
to the emperor ship of all of China
right now he was Emperor only of the
north of China occupying the lands of
the liao gene in western shah the big
prize was still not his yet now the song
and the mongols had not been at peace
the war between the song and mongols ran
in phases the first phase ran from
twelve thirty five to twelve forty-eight
which ended in a ceasefire in the second
phase ran from twelve fifty one twelve
sixty and ended right after the death of
mngke khan now comes the final phase
which ran from twelve sixty eight to
twelve seventy six it wasn't a case of
the Mongol army just moving in and
crushing everything in its path the song
with all these rivers wasn't as easy to
conquer as the north
there were several years of pitched land
and naval battles fought on the great
rivers of the south by twelve seventy
six it was all over and it took three
years of mopping up before the southern
song was down for the count in 1279 the
imperial capital in lean on or hangzhou
as this town is known today was taken by
the mongols
and this forced the imperial court to
flee and get set up in the city of food
choe in Fujian province in 1276 the next
year in 1277 the song Emperor and his
court were chased out of huge oh and
they flee even further south to the
great port city of chinchou the imperial
court and their loyal hangers-on figured
they would just sort of wait out the
Mongols they boarded vessels with the
intention of being a government in exile
they sailed as far south as you can go
and continental China into Guangdong
province they first sought refuge in of
all places
whole island which today in Hong Kong is
such famous landmark says the airport
and Disneyland the last stand for the
southern song took place down in the
south of China and Sheen weight counting
there gentlemen in Guangdong province it
was there were the loyal song general
zhang xue'er jia who had been fleeing
the mongols all over the place
protecting the emperor there he made his
last stand
so in 1279 it all comes to an end in the
city of jongmin gentlemen today by the
way it's a city that is home to
thousands and thousands of factories
that turn out all kinds of made in china
merchandise found in all the big retail
chains across the USA and around the
world this event on March 19 1279 was
known as the Battle of Yaman or the
yamen Johnny with all lost and the
Mongols about to deliver the final
thrust of the sword on the southern song
the loyal military commander Liu show
food together with the eight year old
last emperor of the song white song
jumped from a cliff and committed
suicide rather than face the humiliation
of defeat and capture the entire
imperial court in exile who had followed
the generals juncture gia and Liu shofu
all around Fujian and Guangdong
they also made that suicide leap from
those cliffs near Yama and so that it
was said tens of thousands of corpses
floated in the sea near where the
southern Song made their last stand so
very dramatic ending indeed and that was
that once again the Han Chinese lost
control of China and the Emperor a
non-han ruled the traditional lands of
the Middle Kingdom from the north south
east and west but as you may recall from
the earlier podcast I did on Kublai Khan
this Emperor ended up becoming so Han
Chinese and his ways of leading that his
Mongol allies and family poured scorn on
the Great Khan for embracing Chinese
culture over his own Mongol steppe
culture
so that's the end of the great song
dynasty together with the tongue this
dynasty saw China reach heights that
were unequaled in the world at the time
Chinese culture had a fabulous run for
six and a half centuries from the start
of the Tong and 618 until this moment
when Lu Shifu and the child song Emperor
make their death plunge from the cliffs
of Yaman the entire rock-solid
foundation of Chinese culture built
brick by brick since the time of joke
Gong had during this period a sort of
Big Bang it was a massive explosion of
creativity and learning where all the
adornments filigree colors and whatnot
were all packed on top of almost two
millennia of cultural development as we
have seen going back to the spring and
autumn and warring States Period nothing
was able to keep man down no matter how
outrageous are violent the times were
661 years of the Tong dynasty from God
sooo tight suit tight song it's a
tension song and then the disunity that
followed the Tong and then the constant
threat from the north from all these
fierce fighting machines one more
horrible than the other and for the
periods of the song in the north and
then in the south Chinese culture
reached a refinement that really made
the world take notice in a way the
humanities Liberal and Fine Arts ways of
how business was efficiently carried out
technology transport and logistics it
just leaps forward in the understanding
of chemistry physics astronomy so much
happened during these six and a half
centuries and all the while fabulously
educated and fastidious scholars of the
Confucian tradition organized it
catalogued it embellished and edited all
the details of all the history and
knowledge they package this for later
generations to pour over and further
study and write more commentaries about
that
yeah just enriched this knowledge that
came from a culture that began to take
shape and a thousand BC under the
Western
Joe kings and a great thing got greater
and greater to the point where now where
we end this podcast episode the Great
Khan whooping yeah Kublai Khan grandson
of the greatest Conqueror in history he
becomes emperor of China and embraces
this great culture over his own Mongol
culture and Kublai Khan he reigns over a
period that promoted this rich culture
that had percolated for the past 661
years during the tongue and Song
dynasties and then we see under this
sign a phial Mongol Emperor it flowers
even some more now I was gonna pack in a
whole bunch more about some of the
bullet points of the song but I ran a
little long last week and didn't want to
hog too many of your megabytes if you're
downloading these shows there are a good
5 to 10 episodes that I see you or we
can revisit this time period and focus
in on all the interesting stuff during
this time some time between 12 71 and
1275 Marco Polo was walking around China
and having his face time with Kublai
Khan at this time as we close out he he
sent a message back to Venice describing
you know what he had seen as he wandered
around China and he one of the things he
said an interesting quote I tell you
that this river goes so far and through
so many regions and there are so many
cities on its banks that truth to tell
in the total value and volume of traffic
on it it exceeds all the rivers of the
Christians put together plus their seas
so for now we're gonna scratch this
topic off the list and my friends I'm
off to deutschland Wednesday not to
return until the last day of the year of
the ox and then on February 3rd will be
the first day of the year of the rabbit
I was in Vegas at the Bellagio last
weekend and there over the top
conservatory off the lobby was all
decked out as it always is every year at
Chinese New Year with that beautiful
Chinese New Year theme they do I'm going
to re-up load the Kublai Khan episode
because folks he may be the Great Khan
and all but his dynasty only survives
for 79 more years after his death in
and the Han Chinese are back in the
saddle again with the main dynasty this
rebroadcast episode of Kublai Khan will
serve as the podcast covering the yeren
dynasty so I'm going to take a break for
a week taking care of all my tests at
hand and Frankfurt and we'll pick up in
the year of the rabbit with the Ming
Dynasty and how they were able to
overthrow such an all-powerful force of
nature as the Mongols I'm going to be
leaving this beautiful la weather it's
been in the 70s and 80s and sunny and
gorgeous the kind of weather that made
this part of SoCal famous I have 20s and
30 degrees ahead of me once I'm in
Frankfurt walking in Goethe's footsteps
for anyone who enjoys foreign films
please go rent or stream the 2007 movie
Mongol it traces the story of Genghis
Khan as the young Temujin growing up on
the steppes of Mongolia and it's filmed
a lot of it's filmed in Kazakhstan and
Inner Mongolia just beautiful traces his
rise to when he becomes the Great Khan
and begins his conquering of the world
got an 87 percent on Rotten Tomatoes
it's a bonafide Laszlo Montgomery
recommendation watching this film and
seeing the vastness of this land where
they all live you'll see it really
brings some of what I've explained about
the steps to life so check it out if
you'd like so many of you have been
sending in your comments and suggestions
for future topics and I wanted to assure
you as soon as we finish off the last
Emperor Puyi in 1911 it's open season
and will once again jump around all over
the place and look at all the different
gems from Chinese history and so from
sunny and gorgeous Claremont California
this is Laszlo Montgomery wishing the
fondest of farewells visit me at WWJD
history podcast comm and send me a
comment or suggestion or just let me
know what you think about the show take
care everybody